PSY 9:4... Lo, HIS tears healed even the deepest of wounds; the droplets would spur LYFE wherever they fell.
PSY 1:30... HE is our shepherd, and cradles those who’ve passed while waiting for the salvation of our kind; HE holds them with loving arms. 
PSY 29:1... And with the wisdom given to the Saints, HE quietly leads us forward through their works, for they are each a limb of him.
PSY 3:5... One needn’t fear the night if they’ve faith, for faith in HIM will outshine any encroaching darkness.
PSY 60:5... With the wave of a hand, HE could turn back the tide of darkness, and impart upon the land peace and justice.
PSY 1:4... HE gifted his people the light above, and when they grew weary of its demanding gaze, HE gave them the gentle rest of night.
PSY 1:2... HE molded land to meet the demands of the flock, a studious gaze quietly laboring over our realm and its gifts.
PSY 4:6... Psydon’s somber gaze looks down upon us all, for he hopes that we too will all be penitent, to follow in the footsteps of His holy saints.
PSY 3:3... And upon failure, Saint Dendor cried for help and HE answered, giving man the gift of blessed silver.
PSY 6:32... And upon seeing HIM, she screamed and wept at his sandals, for Saint Astrata had planted the dangerous seeds of ego within their own worshippers. 
PSY 1:9... HE met their maddened gaze with kindness and extended a hand despite their blade, for HE understood the true path of righteousness.
PSY 1:5... And when they could not protect themselves, HE gave them the gifts of knowledge and cunning, so that they would learn to overcome fears and enemies alike.
PSY 80:9... HIS silence is one of lesson; To punish the holy and unholy alike, so that they may all better themselves beneath his saddened gaze, lest he be spurred into action once more. 
PSY 82:1... The Faithful would find themselves comfortable in routine, and at ease within HIS blanket of silence; the quiet was a blessing from HIM that must never be wasted, lest PSYDON himself speak again.
PSY 62:4... PSYDON favors no-individual, for there is no such thing as nobility unless if man devotes himself in service to the LORD. 
PSY 6:70... Saint Eora and Saint Pestra stood closest in faith to HIM, and thus will forever remain the favored patrons of HIS will. 
PSY 66:1... O' LORD, who art so benevolent, thank thee for our water and the crops with which thou giveth our meals. Ainsi soit-il..
PSY 66:2... May thy gift of strength guide us so thou mayst continue to have thy name spread. Blessed be thy gifts, and may we ne'er forget thy sacrifice.
NODD 6:20... We must love everyone, regardless if they love us or not; guide them to brevity with a opened palm, nary-a-clenched fist.
NODD 8:14... Learn to love like PSYDON. Sit with patience, for that - alone - is the ultimate sign of endurance.
TUCA 5:12... SAINTHOOD comes by grace. Follow PSYDON's love.
TUCA 6:17... Death to the world, for the SAINTS left everything behind, and left MAN to pick up the pieces.
TUCA 7:16... The war within; comfort, pleasure, success. But the SAINTS - they left it all, for they feared what these temptings would provoke.
TUCA 9:3... Death to the world means more; a hidden life. A quiet heart. A burning love for PSYDON.
