The cults of the Ascendants appear to the common guardsmen to have no true co-ordination amongst heretics. This is why they're oft the first victims.
PSYDON yet lives. PSYDON yet ENDURES.
Dae is far less dangerous than Night; Unholy abberations are abjured by the Absolute Order's gaze.
The Ten are less responsive to prayer than the Ascendant. The Holy See claims that this is a test of faith.
I can jump further by getting a running start. Mind the overshoot.
Not even His devout truly know the machinations of Abyssor, for He entered an eternal slumber shortly after his ascension.
Rest shall heal your beleagured body. Any smart adventurer brings a bedroll...and a lookout.
Many think they have never seen a snow elf, yet many of Zizo's horde were once her former kin cursed to never return to the world in full.
A torch should be kept dry, and a blade sharp.
The key to a long life is knowing when to run.
Holy miracles are lethal to deadites, and unholy magicks mend their bones and skin.
Xylix blessed the first Fluvians with the tarot deck, who spread the stolen knowledge of Fate with the world..
Baotha was once a snow elf who was kept prisoner by the Naledi. It is said her revenge against her captors led to the empire's downfall.
Eora is scoffed on by followers of Astrata - little realising Her love blesses their families and their hearths.
None know where Zizo makes her lair. Her followers believe she rests upon the Celestial Throne of PSYDON, willfully ignoring its proximity to Otava.
Dendor was the First Druid, until civilisation drove him mad.
The origin of werewolves have been lost to time, as it's hard to ask questions of a slavering beast with your throat between its jaws.
Hidden deep in the woods are the first groves of the Dendorites. Wanderers are warned of collosal beasts once raised by their wildkin druids.
Most Dendorites love nature, and despise the defilement of His realm. Many other are madmen who believe themselves to be beasts.
A common legend amongst lumberjacks is that the wise trees in the forests sometimes let out soft, calming music. This is, of course, balderdash.
Xylix and Matthios both stand for freedom. But what is true freedom?
Astrata and Noc are often misinterpreted as one being. The Equilibrium of the Eclipse is real, however.
Pestra is the only one of the Ten born to a wildkin. Aasimar are said to get their wings from Her.
Necra was the first of the Ten to be born. To see Her is to know death.
Deep in the Celestial Throne lays Noc's vault of knowledge, said to be so vast that the mind would cease functions if even a sliver of it was learned.
Thousands of years ago, PSYDON came down upon the COMET SYON, blessing PSYDONIA with lyfe.
It is taught by the Holy See that Zizo was a mage who coveted the COMET SYON, and stopped at nothing to claim it as Her own.
The Jacksberry bush, known for its edible berries, is closely-related to its deadly-poisonous cousin of the same name. So much so that they sometimes cannot be told apart. 
Matthios is known as the Manyfaced. Is He a highwayman, a beggar god or a dragon? Perhaps He is all, and none.
Necrans despise deadites and wish them exterminated or cured; Pestrans wish them cured, but hold the rot-touched in fascination.
The divines smile upon your prayers in front of a psycross, but never mention them the name of the Necromantress.
The best way to deal with a mage is to shut them up.
Ravox stands for justice, and once bested Astrata to bring it to the world.
Heretical tomes suggest Xylix has a fondness for Matthios's unknowable nature, something They aspire to achieve Themselves.
The hoardmasters of Matthios were not ordained by the Manyfaced, rather attracted to the brigands by lust for gold.
Coins are often buried with the dead to pay for the Carriageman's services.
Zardmen tails are said to bring good luck if burned and scattered as powder. 
Lux from a tiefling is thought to be toxic. It is often purified with silver before transplantation.
Pestrans oft suffer bad relations with the rest of the Church, as their fixation on rot and decay is looked on increasingly with distrust in the new era of necromancy. Sects of physickers keep increasingly to themselves.
Malum's forges are said to lay beneath a dwarven fortress now lost to time. Many dwarves get themselves killed in search of the mythical workshops.
Cheeles are blessed by Pestra. Many don't understand why the Panacea would choose to bless a leech of all things.
Eora stands for far more than familial love. Marriage is solely an Astratan concept used to solidify the nobility's grasp on the world.
What better trick than stealing knowledge from Noc Himself??
Blood freely spilled always offers greater power, for it carries the worth of both the blood and the choice. Always obtain a willing victim, if you can.
Aasimar blood is thought to have powerful protective properties. Superstitious soldiers may ask to be annointed with a drop before a battle.
Black cats are symbols of death, and sacred to Necra. They stare at souls only they can see, and lead them to the Carriageman.
Trolls are thought to have once guarded Dendor's realm. Druids often seek them out. Few return.
Drow mushroom wines are said to be delicious as long as they are paired with the right antidote.
Servants of Xylix are often capricious and untrustworthy, but all share in their god's hatred for slave-taking. 
The Celestial Throne is said to lay north of Otava. Shards of SYON found nearby are often used as beacons of hope by the Inquisition.
Graggar was slain by Ravox, His head revived through the COMET SYON's power as the Gorebound Star. Gazing upon Him will drive anyone to madness.
The Gods are listening. To utter the name of Zizo is to attract Her attention, and your damnation.
The Inhumen have many names. In the frozen, forsaken north, they are revered as sacred animals—the moose, the leopard, the bear, and the volf.
O fate, you are as fickle as a moth.
For the entire world, the annihilation of an entire species was seen as a cataclysmic event that shook reality to its core. For Her, it was taking one step of many.
Zizo is nothing but a name to masquerade Her identity. If the world was to know PSYDON abandoned the mortal Zinoviya, society would collapse.
A Ravoxian should not let rage get in the way of justice. Death is not always the answer.
The Undermaiden claims all souls, in time. Her servants can avert death, but frown on reversing it.
Gaze upon the works of PSYDONIA, ye mighty, and weep!
The church will commonly take tithes from the faithful of towns, making them easy targets for Matthiosans.
The Lamia were one of many races changed by the dreams of Abyssor, along with the Axians.
Zizo stole the souls of all snow elves to further Her goals of ascension. They serve eternally in her undead armies, forever freed from Necra's grasp.
The land of Naledi is a shell of its former self, driven to its knees by their mistreatment of the mortal Baotha.
Most citizens of Grenzelhoft cannot remember a time the empire was not at war. Many turn to mercenary work to escape the crushing poverty of the lower class. Others turn to banditry.
Legend has it that the Terrorbog guards the body of one of the first wildkin druids made by Dendor.
Astrata claimed the title of the Pantheon's head for herself. Ravox makes sure She does not abuse her position.
The barren steppes of Gronn are the homelands of the orcs. Few travel there willingly, for the Gorespawn Star dominates the land.
Vampyres are sun-cursed creechers spawned from a failed ritual of the Dark Arts.
The fragment of COMET SYON grants those of strong conviction infinite power, and violently erupts when the weak-spirited attempt to channel it.
The kobolds birthed the Dragon-God Matthios, though the father of dragons was never a god.
Merchants and the rich are often viewed with suspicion of Matthiosite heresy by the Inquisition. Ironic considering they are the ones targeted most frequently.
The Ten will have you think He is dead; but all He asks of you is for your faith to ENDURE.
The powerful nation of Otava is home to an ancient order of divine peacekeepers who endure in the name of PSYDON. They work with the Holy See to smite evil where it lurks.
The land of Naledi is now but a smouldering ruin of rot and feces; sand runs through with daemonic taint. The warscholars flee their home, weeping as He does.
I AM OLDER THAN AEON. I AM SIN, FATHER OF LIES. I HAVE GONE BY MANY NAMES. SAY THEM AND WEEP, FOR I AM ALL THAT THEY ARE.
Working yourself to death is considered an act worthy of veneration for Malumites—so long as you finish your creation.
It's a good idea to bandage and suture arterial wounds as soon as possible. Death happens slowly, and then all at once.
Gripping bleeding bodyparts makes them bleed slower. The harder you grip, the less you bleed.
The Sovereignty of Otava is a lush wet country home to the best stoneworkers on Psydonia. The gigantic towers of the Grand Cathedral in the capital stand as the seat of the Otavan Inquisition.
A traditional Psydonic greeting or farewell is 'Purity afloat.' The psycross is often held over the chest during this ritual.
Blacksteel is a pale imitation of the Zizo-blessed Darksteel, which is gifted to Her followers in Her benevolence.
Blacksteel is a blessed alloy of pure silver and steel. Its recipe was stolen by Zizite heretics and perverted into Darksteel.
The Gronn Highlands are a mountainous region known for its jagged peaks and terrible blizzards. Steppes or highlands, Gronn is a terrible place to live.
Dwarves are renowned for their artifice and craftsmanship, having been least affected by the fall of PSYDON. They are only mostly dead.
The Zybantine Empire is a vast dry region primarily made up of endless deserts and sparse settlements. It is famous for its rich silks, splendorous gold, and expansive slave trade.
Dwarves hail from all regions of the world, either from above or below. Confusing a surface-dwarf and an underground-dwarf is likely to get you kicked in the shin.
The Isles of Etrusca are a sun-kissed archipelago nestled in sparkling blue waters. Known for their rich maritime culture, the Etruscans are masterful sailors and traders, navigating the seas with swift, ornate galleons adorned with colorful sails.
ZIZO. ZIZO. ZIZO.
To seek progress is to paint with your blood. The greater the work, the harsher the price.
Scent of rot and shit; my feet find fetid ground. A corpse—I am living on a corpse. And then the world is normal again.
Worshippers of the Ascendants are fools hellbent on dooming our world and must be corrected or destroyed.
Worshippers of the Ten are fools hellbent on dooming our world and must be corrected or destroyed.
Worshippers of the One are fools hellbent on dooming our world and must be corrected or destroyed.
LOOK UP TO THOSE WHO EXCEL AT VIOLENCE; THEY CARRY THE WILL OF THE GODS AND RECIEVE PUNISHMENT OF HELL BEYOND HELLS.
O SYDON, forgive your wayward child. Forgive us our ignorance. Forgive us our defilement of your corpse.
Skeletons have no BRAIN. Try to FEINT them. But don't tell this to everyone!
A DODGING rogue who keeps their eyes FIXED retreats only backwards.
The lands of Ferentia are home to many wonderful and woeful beasts, especially in the Terrorbog. The Ferentian man is hardy, though often wolf food.
The heads of goblins, minotaurs, dragons, footpads, seamen, trolls, and various beasts can all be sold to a Merchant, or a particular machine...
Wearing a red tabard provokes even the most serene minotaur.
An arcing arrow can only hit a target below you, not above you. A thrown rock, however...
Astrata is a tyrant whose fury is kept in check by the Glorious Justice.
Astrata is law made manifest and must be respected, lest society fall into chaos.
No pursuit was too perilous, no sacrifice too great. Until, well...
Under the Heavens and the Many Stars, there are darker things than men may dream of.
Lupians make exceptional zealots. Ask the Otavan Inquisition.
Stories tell that Noc stole Dendor's curse to create Humen of his own, and thus Lupians came to be. A poor imitation.
Stories tell that Noc stole Dendor's blessing to create Humen of his own, and thus Lupians came to be. An honest attempt.
Solitary Lupians who suffer from gigantism are often mistaken for werevolves and shot without question, so they travel in packs - be it with their own or other peoples.
Many people believe wildkin to be one race. In truth, there are as many individual species of wildkin as there are stars in the sky.
The bog be a dangerous place full of chittering fiends. That Dendorite may be covered in leaves and mud, at least they make for a good guide.
With the care they put into their work, it is said that the food made by Eora's faithful energize the soul like no other dish.
Pomegranate arils are boons sent to mortals by Eora to test whether they're dedicated enough to care for something precious.
The mythical ashen aril is coveted by thieves, heretics and all manner of ruffians. For it is said to yield unimaginable power.
The pauper never had much, but his worship for Abyssor led the faithful to mend his broken frame with ancient strength.
To trust an Abyssorite is to believe in Xylix. The Abyssorite knows not his own god.
The winds tell tales of Astratan devout turning flesh to flame and flame to blades. Beware her fury.
Abyssor's dream was not always so horrible. His followers drove themselves mad.
The mast buckles, as the ship is led through treacherous waters by Abyssorite under Astrata's gaze. Sleeping eyes giving way for the faithful of Noc, who continue their toil at night.
Take care not to fall into Abyssor's realm at night. His followers have corrupted the sleeping city.
The righteous cult of Abyssor seeks to keep the old one asleep. His Sentinels and Acolytes often find employ within cities and the Holy See. it is immessurably expensive to scrawl down so many glimpses of dreams, yet the faithful do not care that most of it is gibberish.
Heretical Abyssorites are despised by many, even their own ilk often think twice of associating with them. Whether it's fear of the destruction wrought by a waking Abyssor, or to condemn the time wasted by their attempts.
One does not need to be devout, even those unbelieving can get caught by the predaceous dream of Abyssor. It consumes them, unable to tell his realm apart from their own. Yet suddenly, everything seems possible.
The Ten are both Saints and Gods, the original Aasimar and the shepherds of the new age.
Not all who wish to ascend to godhood are evil. Just most of them.
